R v Qutami [2001] NSWCCA 353 (28 June 2001)

Last Updated: 13 September 2001

NEW SOUTH WALES COURT OF CRIMINAL APPEAL

CITATION: R v Qutami [2001] NSWCCA 353

FILE NUMBER(S):

60191/01

HEARING DATE(S): 28 June 2001

JUDGMENT DATE: 28/06/2001

PARTIES:

Regina v Hami Qutami

JUDGMENT OF: Spigelman CJ Simpson J Smart AJ

LOWER COURT JURISDICTION: District Court

LOWER COURT FILE NUMBER(S): 99/11/1227

LOWER COURT JUDICIAL OFFICER: Finnane DCJ

COUNSEL:

(A) L M B Lampratti (Crown)

(R) M Ramage QC & T S Corish

SOLICITORS:

(A) S E O'Connor

(R) Murphy's Lawyers Inc.

CATCHWORDS:

Sentencing - solicit to  murder  - non parole period manifestly adequate - desirability of prisoner giving evidence - very limited weight to be given to untested, self serving statements made to experts - role of restoration of community harmony

LEGISLATION CITED:

Crimes Act s 26

Sentencing Act 1989

Crimes (Sentencing Procedure) Act 1999, s 44

DECISION:

Appeal allowed in part

Appeal against sentence of imprisonment of 4 years 5 months and 21 days dismissed

Non-parole period of 11 months, 21 days set aside - in lieu the Court fixes a non-parole period of 29 months, 21 days commencing on 8 March 2001 and ending on 28 August 2003

JUDGMENT:

IN THE COURT OF

CRIMINAL APPEAL

60191/01

SPIGELMAN CJ

SIMPSON J

SMART AJ

Thursday, 28 June 2001

REGINA v HAMI QUTAMI

JUDGMENT

1 SPIGELMAN CJ: I invite Smart AJ to deliver the first judgment.

2 SMART AJ: The Crown appeals against the sentence of imprisonment of four years five months and twenty-one days with a non-parole period of eleven months twenty-one days imposed by the District Court upon Hami Qutami for the offence of soliciting to  murder  on the ground that the sentence was inadequate. The judge took into account that Mr Qutami had earlier spent six months and ten days in custody in relation to the offence. Thus, the effective head sentence was five years with a non-parole period of eighteen months. On the day of the trial the applicant pleaded guilty. A further charge of incite to kidnap was not pressed.

The Background

3 Mr Qutami has been in Australia since 1973. He is of Jordanian extraction and the uncle of the proposed victim, Ruba Qutami, who was aged twenty at the time of the offence in August 1999. She grew up in the home of her family under the care of her parents and with her brother and two sisters in Smithfield. The family were Orthodox Christians. Across the street there lived another Arabic family called Raad, but that family (parents, four sons and a daughter) were of the Muslim faith.

4 Ruba became friendly with the oldest son, Haytham Raad. Her parents tolerated her being a casual friend of Haytham. In early 1976 she formed a sexual relationship with Haytham and that continued for nine months before her parents found out about it. Thereafter, she had a number of serious fights with her parents and left home over Haytham. Her father made serious attacks upon her and hurt her. He told her to stop seeing Haytham.

5 Her family and her uncles, including the prisoner, promised her that if she returned home she could continue her relationship with Haytham in peace. Upon her return home her father continued to harass her. In 1997 she was forced to travel to Jordan, where she was married to her first cousin, Nashat Ayout. They stayed in Jordan for nine months before they returned to Australia and lived with her parents in their Smithfield home.

6 She was extremely unhappy in the relationship with Nashat and living at home with her parents. She was kept under constant supervision and control. She was driven by family members to and from the technical college where she was training. On two occasions Nashat slapped her across the face.

7 In February 1998 she resumed her relationship with Haytham. Her family became suspicious and she found that she was subject to intolerable pressure. She left Nashat and her family in June 1998 and moved into a refuge. After she left the refuge she lived with Haytham in his sister's house. Her parents, uncles, brother and sisters visited that residence continually and tried to persuade her to return to her parents' home.

8 On two occasions her father and another uncle tried to forcibly put her into a car. In August 1998 she took out an Apprehended Violence Order against her father, her mother and Nashat. He tried to force his way into Fairfield Police Station to get to her before she took out the Apprehended Violence Order on him.

9 At an appearance at the Fairfield Court House the prisoner spoke to Ruba Qutami outside the Court Registry and said to her sarcastically and insincerely, "I love you and don't worry." He was with Ruba's mother and aunt. By this time Ruba had become pregnant. Her family became aware of her condition.

10 She and Haytham moved to his father's house at Bonnyrigg 