to write a letter to back her uncle up. She did so that day stating:

" ... I know that my uncle Hami wouldn't do any harm to me ... my uncle has been under a lot of stress and pressure and lost his job and he wouldn't have known what he did. I can understand why he went this far ..."

23 In her statement of 14 September 1998, Ruba detailed the pleading of her Aunt Mona to help the prisoner. Ruba explained that because of the family ties she found it hard knowing that her uncle could go to gaol for twenty years or more. She reiterated that she and Haytham wanted to live in peace without harassment from any members of her family or his.

24 On 5 November 1998 she swore an affidavit which was used in a bail application by the prisoner. She stated that she had no fears for her safety and would like him released from custody on bail as she did not believe he would harm her in any way.

25 The prisoner was born on 22 April 1953. He came to Australia when he was twenty. He had no previous convictions.

26 The judge had a considerable number of medical reports and a psychologist's reports. It is not necessary to canvass these in detail. Doctor J A Roberts, who provided a number of reports, has summarised the effect of many of the other reports. He concluded:

(a) Regardless of the diagnostic label, there was uniform agreement that the prisoner had certain problems relating to anxiety and depression. He needs continuing psychiatric treatment. There was no evidence of psychosis or impairment of comprehension.

(b) The prisoner's conduct had to be considered in the context of his cultural educational and social background. That included the great disgrace experienced by the family when a daughter from a Christian Orthodox family left her husband and lived with a Muslim and was pregnant to him and the closeness of family ties. No stone would be left unturned to have her leave her boyfriend and return to her husband and her family. Regard also had to be had to the depth of the antipathy between those of the Christian Orthodox persuasion and those of the Muslim persuasion. The hostilities and prejudices of 1500 years and their deep effect had to be taken into account.	

(c) The prisoner is suffering from diabetes and a neurological condition, namely, a transient reversible ischaemic episode. It has not left any permanent residual impairment. This appears to have been stress related. Incarceration may consequently have a harsher effect upon him.

(d) The prisoner no longer wishes to have anything to do with Ruba. He appears to have had no adverse report from his release on bail on 25 November 1998 until his return to prison on 29 November 2000 on pleading guilty.

(e) The prisoner had learnt a lot since his arrest on 24 August 1998 and is unlikely to be a threat to his niece or to re-offend."

27 The judge accepted that the prisoner is unlikely to re-offend.

28 It seems that the applicant has suffered considerable emotional disturbance and stress since his dismissal as a railway guard, which he regarded as unjust. Since that time he has been unemployed. He depends on the pension. He has six children. Doctor Roberts recorded in his report of 22 October 1998 that the prisoner completed his Higher School Certificate in the 1970s and was accepted by Monash University to study economics and politics. He did not take up this opportunity. He has also undertaken some studies in aviation and has flown.

29 The judge noted there was a considerable body of character evidence. Amongst other things it spoke of his devotion to his family, his church and his Orthodox Christian faith, his active support of Arabic organisations and his general good character. The judge took the view that the prisoner had been caught up in his cultural traditions and the desire of the family to have Ruba return to the family and conform with the family's beliefs, customs and religious practices.

30 The judge thought it was unlikely the prisoner would have carried through with the plan to have Ruba killed but recognised that this opinion may be wrong. The evidence did not entitle the judge to make the finding mentioned. The evidence suggested that it was the prisoner's arrest, charging and incarceration which impacted upon him and the whole family. The police thought that there was a real risk to Ruba based on sound reasons. The terms of the recorded conversations are stark. The most favourable finding available on the evidence to the prisoner was that the Court was unable to say whether he would have proceeded with the plan to kill if he had not been arrested, although there was a real risk he would. The prisoner did not give evidence before the judge. This increased the difficulty of making any positive finding.

31 The judge said:

"However, I think it likely, having looked at all this, that the prisoner himself, because of his post traumatic stress disorder, his stress, his ischaemic heart disease and other things allowed himself to get overborne and foolishly to rush off and engage in a wild flight of fancy in which probably at most he would have 