Crown submitted there was no justification for the shortening of the non-parole period to the degree that occurred in this case. It accepted it was correct to take into account by way of special circumstances that the prisoner had no previous convictions and, presumably, his state of health.

45 However, it was submitted that the special circumstances which existed in this case did not justify the reduction which occurred, nor did his need for personal rehabilitation under the guidance of the Parole authorities.

46 The Crown further submitted that the judge incorrectly approached the fixing of the non-parole period on the basis of deciding that there was a real need for a shorter non-parole period rather than a need for a longer period on parole.

47 I am not persuaded that the judge erred in his approach. Emphasis was placed by the Crown on the judge's "need for harmony" approach. The Crown further contended that on any view the sentence was manifestly inadequate. That is, on the facts the sentence bespoke error.

48 The prisoner submitted that the sentence was a proper one, that no error on the part of the sentencing judge had been shown and that, absent any such error, the Court should not intervene. It was further submitted that the exercise of the sentencing discretion was correct in that it reflected and took into account the objective seriousness of the offence and the particular subjective features of the case in a balanced way.

49 The prisoner further submitted the Court should dismiss the appeal in the exercise of its discretion because of the element of double jeopardy, the delay in the hearing of the appeal and the implicit concession by the Crown before the judge that the overall sentence imposed on the prisoner was within the permissible range.

50 I agree with the prisoner's submission that the facts as to charges under s 26 of the Crimes Act vary widely. Only limited assistance is to be gained from sentences in other cases. The sample available from the statistics of the Judicial Commission for the period April 1993 to March 2000 is small. There are seven cases. Minimum and fixed terms vary from twelve months to ten years. There are two instances of minimum terms below thirty-six months and four above thirty-six months. Full terms vary from thirty months to sixteen years. The statistics for the period January 1990 to May 1998 record that there were nine cases and that minimum terms ranged from twelve months to ten years. There were three cases below thirty-six months and five cases above thirty-six months. Full term sentences ranged from thirty months to sixteen years. Five cases involved sentences of six years or more. There was one case of a bond prior to April 1993. This short review indicates the limited assistance which the statistics afford in the present case.

51 The prisoner's submissions analysed the remarks on sentence and contended that the judge had taken into account all relevant objective and subjective features and given each its correct weight. The prisoner repelled the criticisms made by the Crown. The prisoner submitted that the judge was entitled to give full benefit to the plea of guilty. This was not a case where the applicant was entitled to a discount at the top of the range for his plea of guilty. The sentence itself suggests the prisoner was given a generous discount for his plea.

52 The prisoner submitted that the judge had not erred in his approach to the fixing of the non-parole period and the existence of special circumstances. It is not in dispute that there were special circumstances. The question is whether the allowance made for these was outside the limits of the sound exercise of the judge's discretion. The prisoner relied on the finding that individual deterrence was no longer required, that he had served six months and ten days in custody, the plea of guilty being deemed to be at the first available opportunity, and the need for harmony in the community. The prisoner drew attention to his age, character, lack of prior convictions, his medical condition and his alleged need for an extended period of supervision while on parole.

53 Not all of these matters could accurately be described as special circumstances but his lack of prior convictions (including his prior good character) and his medical condition are. To suggest that a period of supervision in excess of three years was required is erroneous.

54 During the course of these reasons I have identified particular errors made. Further, the Crown is correct in its submissions that the sentence does not reflect the objective gravity of the offence and that undue importance and weight has been given to the subjective features. In particular, the non-parole period does not, as it should, reflect the criminality of the offence. The judge's stated sympathy for the prisoner has led him to take a view of the facts which is too benign and to fix a non-parole period that is grossly and manifestly inadequate. The full term of the sentence is inadequate, but not so inadequate as to lead me to disturb it.

55 As mentioned earlier, the prisoner submitted that if the Court thought the sentence, including the non-parole period, was manifestly inadequate, it should, nevertheless, dismiss the appeal on the 